What are Bath Salts?Epsoak Epsom Salt 19lbs Magnesium Sulfate USP Resealable Bulk Bag
Bath Salts are being used as a simple and cheap way to treat mental and physical health ailments. Bath salts, that are normally made of sulphate and Magnesium. There are too many bath salts however Epsom Salt is well-known salt in the market. The Epsom salt is easily dissolvable in hot water and used for everything from stress relief to aches and pains.


 
Most people use bath salts for relaxing soak within the tub, however, bath salts are believed to provide several health benefits for people such as muscle pain and stiffness, anxiety and stress, circulation problems. Epsom Salt is also used as a remedy for dry and itchy skin, stiff, aching joints, arthritis, headaches skin conditions, such as eczema.Benefits of Epsom Salt as a Bath Salt
How to use Bath Salts?
There are too many ways to use bath salts, depending on you. However here I’m going to tell you the benefits of Epsom Salt as a bath salt. Pour 2 cups of Epsom salt into the bathtub filled with hot water and mix it to dissolve into the water. You can also add some oils such as coconut oil, lavender and peppermint for additional benefits

Benefits of Epsom Salt as a Bath Salt
1. Detox Bath
Epsom salt can be used as a detox bath which helps to remove toxins from the human body to relieve stress, improve health, treat constipation and also help to reduce weight loss. The presence of magnesium in the Epsom Salt may also be beneficial for people with fibromyalgia and deficiency. Soak in the tub for 15 to 20 minutes to treat constipation.

2. Muscle Aches
Bath salts can be used as a remedy for muscle aches and to reduce inflammation. Soak for at least 15 minutes. You can also add a few drops of cinnamon bark to reduce muscle pain as cinnamon bark oil has a warming effect on the skin and useful for sore muscles.

3. Arthritis
The Arthritis Foundation recommends soaking and stretching in a warm mixed with Epsom salt for relieving from stiff and aching joints and for the relief of muscle soreness after workouts or exercise. You may also use ginger oil for quick relief. Soak for at least 25 minutes.

You can also make a paste of Epsom and ginger to rub on the affected joints.

4. Dry or itchy skin
You can use Epsom salts for dry and itchy skin caused by insects bites or any poison ivy.  Add olive oil, almond oil,  and soak for at least 3 to 5 minutes.

5. Foot Soak
You can use Epsom salt as a foot soak for the relief of gout pain and inflammation, relieve symptoms of athlete’ foot, to treat toenail fungus and to eliminate foot smell.

Pour half cup of Epsom salt in the bathtub filled with warm water and shake with hand to dissolve the salt and soak your feet for 15 to 30 minutes depending on your foot conditions. Repeat two to three times a day for the treatment of nail fungus. You can also add tea tree oil for better results. Soaking your feet in a warm mixed with Epsom salt can help cracked heels to recover.

6. Skin inflammation or irritation
Epsom salt is very useful for the relieve of skin inflammation and irritation caused by eczema, psoriasis, contact dermatitis, and athlete’s foot. Use one cup of table salt to your bath during a flare-up to help prevent stinging when bathing.

You can also use Epsom salt or sea salt for the treatment of skin irritation and inflammation and soak for at least 15 to 20 minutes twice a day. Adding 3 or 4 drops of tea tree oil to your salt bath can provide additional relief of inflammation and irritation.

7. In the Shower
You can also use bath salts and enjoy some of the benefits even if you don’t have a bathtub. To do this, you simply make a shower scrub. Take one cup of Epsom Salt, 1/3 cup of almond oil, and one tablespoon of vitamin E oil. Mix all these things in the bow and make a thick paste. Apply the scrub on your body and enjoy.

Important Note:
Bath salts are relaxing and give various restorative and medical advantages. In spite of the fact that for the most part alright for most when utilized legitimately. However, you should consult with your specialist before utilizing a bath salt if you have medical conditions such as heart or diabetes.
